
## About the App
- The data displayed here are not a substitute for a records search undertaken with South Yorkshire Bat Group (records requests should be sent to sybatgroup@googlemail.com).
- The presence records used to generate these maps are taken from the South Yorkshire Bat Group records database from the beginning of 2024. Many of the records in the database were not suitable for use in the HSM as they weren’t always sufficiently detailed or species specific (i.e. Myotis sp. records). However, they may still comprise a confirmed roost record and/or provide a significant amount of context for a proposed development.
- The mapping shows the areas of predicted high and low suitability for nine of the ten South Yorkshire bat species. Where possible this has been calculated separately as roosting suitability and suitability for bats in flight.
- The mapping can be useful for strategic planning, consideration of connectivity, and risk management. However, please note areas of low suitability do not indicate that a bat species will be absent, and areas of high suitability will not always be occupied by that species. If that level of certainty is required it is recommended that specific, targeted surveys are undertaken in line with [good practice guidance](https://www.bats.org.uk/resources/guidance-for-professionals/bat-surveys-for-professional-ecologists-good-practice-guidelines-4th-edition).
- If you don’t think the modelling results reflect the interest of a certain part of south Yorkshire it may partially be due to a lack of records, in which case survey the area and submit your records (stating whether they are of roosting bats or bats in flight) to us, so we can improve these models in the future!
